We are now going to talk about keep on encouraging one another.
So what does it mean to be encouraging?
Well, we may think saying some nice words or going to someone and tell them,
well, whenever you need anything, I'm here for you.
Almost like a crowd in a stadium cheering on the athletes.
However, Christian encouragement is a little deeper than that.
Let us turn you to Romans chapter 1 and see what Paul says about this.
Romans chapter 1 verses 11 and 12.
He says, for I'm longing to see you that I may impart some spiritual gift to you
for you to be made firm or rather that we might have an interchange of encouragement
by one another's faith, both yours and mine.
This expression interchange of encouragement.
If you look at the study note, it says it can mean encouraged together or comforted mutually.
You see the interchange, we receive encouragement, we give encouragement.
There's an interchange between us.
Then it says by one another's faith, both yours and mine.
Why does Paul mention faith?
Well, faith is an expression evidence that we believe in Jehovah.
We believe that Jehovah knows us, that Jehovah cares about us,
and that Jehovah will fulfill every single promise that he has made.
When we share this with one another, that is very encouraging.
Notice in verse 11, it says that we may impart some spiritual gift.
It means that we give it some thought, we plan, we think about this and share the spiritual gift.
It says in order for you to be made firm, these are the things that make us firm,
make us determined, make us sure that we will continue on the course to life.
This makes us think of the words of Jesus in John chapter 13.
And we would like to read verse 34, John 13, 34.
Jesus says, I'm giving you a new commandment, that you love one another.
Just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
Do you see the interchange there? Love one another.
But then he says, just as I have loved you, what does that mean?
Well, Jesus was willing to give His life for our everlasting well-being.
We can imitate Jesus by placing the everlasting well-being of our brothers ahead of our own desires,
of our own plans, our own arrangements.
So the focus is that we want to help others.
The focus is away from ourselves.
We're not so wrapped up in our own pain, suffering and circumstances,
but we think of others, we think out to others to strengthen them
and to share courage and the resolve to continue.
So the reality is, we are part of something much larger than ourselves.
And this command of Jesus is really our life's work to love one another
and to encourage each other to obey the law of the Christ.
Let's briefly have a look at the example of the early Christian congregation
and how they encouraged one another.
And we start off at Pentecost.
They're in Jerusalem.
They are Jews and proselytes from Ethiopia, Egypt, Libya,
Pazia, media, Mesopotamia, Rome, Greece, Crete, Arabia, Macedonia, Galatia,
and 3,000 were baptized on that day.
And quickly the number grew to 5,000.
These spirit-annoyed Christians went back to their home countries
for this command of Jesus, burning in their hearts to have love for one another.
Now at the direction of Jesus, the governing body in Jerusalem,
might strenuous efforts to encourage these brothers.
We turn you to Acts 15 and you're in Acts 15.
They wrote a beautiful letter to the brothers in Antioch, Syria, and Silesia.
And we pick up the reading from verse 25.
Here is what they said in the letter.
We have come to a unanimous decision to choose men to send to you,
together with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, men who have given up their lives
for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Look at the results.
If we just turn back a little bit there to verse 31,
and this is what happened in Antioch, after reading it,
they rejoiced over the encouragement.
And Judas and Siles, since they were also prophets, encouraged the brothers
with many talks and strengthened them.
Now this encouragement did not only come from the governing body.
These early disciples spurred andointed individuals
understood their responsibility to be encouraging toward each other.
Let us for an example look at Acts 14, Acts 14.
From verse 19 it describes that Paul was stoned and dragged outside the city.
This is in Listera. Now we read from verse 20.
However, when the disciples surrounded him, he got up and entered the city.
On the next day he left with Barnabas for Derby.
After declaring the good news to that city and making quite a few disciples,
they returned to Listera, Iconium, and Antioch.
There they strengthened the disciples, encouraging them to remain in the faith
and saying we must enter into the kingdom of God through many tribulations.
There were quite a few brothers associated with Paul and with all those congregations.
We do not know how many.
But if you look at this list, there's a list of 100 names compiled
from only Paul's letters, individuals that he mentioned.
These fellow workers had intense love for one another
and they cooperated, they encouraged one another,
and they stayed faithful and loyal to Jehovah.
Another example is the example of Paul when he was taken as a prisoner from Caesarea to Rome.
Please turn your to Acts chapter 28.
Now in Acts 28, we know that Paul traveled from Malta to Rome.
And as it says there, verse 13, the second part of verse 13,
we made it to put your lie on the second day.
And then he says, here we found brothers and were urged to remain with them for seven days.
What hospitality, what kindness, how encouraging that must have been for the Apostle Paul.
There, and put your lie, Paul then sent a message to the brothers in Rome.
Look at their reaction verse 15.
From there, that is from Rome, the brothers, when they heard the news about us,
came as far as the marketplace of Appiars and three taverns to meet us.
Can you imagine what they did?
They traveled from Rome for 30 miles by foot to meet Paul as he was traveling towards them
under escort as a prisoner.
And Paul's reaction at the end of verse 15, on catching sight of them,
Paul thanked God and took courage.
About two years later, Paul wrote to the Hebrews in Judea,
a verse of our theme discussion.
He said that we must encourage one another as we see the day drawing near.
Within just five years, Jerusalem was surrounded by armies.
So Paul urged them to keep on encouraging one another,
to focus on the welfare of each other and not upon all the issues of the day
with the Jews, the Romans, the Pharisees, or whoever.
We slice ahead for us personally.
We do not know how close we are to the end.
We do not know what troubles we may be experiencing in the meantime.
But one thing is sure, we will encourage one another.
We will take care of each other.
We will not forsake our meeting together.
Meetings give us strength, they give us a spur of Jehovah.
So always be sure to encourage.
Commend, don't criticize.
Comfort one another, urge one another, and not to give up.
In that way, we will fulfill the command of Jesus,
to love one another just as I have loved you.